
                        Owner: User #2064619
Cuckoo Sandbox



Overview
Cuckoo is an open source automated malware analysis system.
It’s used to automatically run and analyze files and collect comprehensive analysis results that outline what the malware does while running inside an isolated Windows operating system.
It can retrieve the following type of results:

Traces of win32 APIApplication Programming Interface calls performed by all processes spawned by the malware.
Files being created, deleted and downloaded by the malware during its execution.
Memory dumps of the malware processes.
Network traffic trace in PCAPPacket capture format format.
Screenshots of Windows desktop taken during the execution of the malware.
Full memory dumps of the machines (including automatic running of Volatility).

For answers to general questions see: cuckoo.pdf
cuckoo-current.tar.gz
 


Instance
An in-work instance is at http://10.3.2.118:8080/. The instance has a 32-bit Windows XPWindows operating system (Version) SP3 sandbox and a 32-bit Windows 7 SP1 sandbox. Both sandboxes are limited to "host-only" networking and will not be able to resolve external network resources on DEVLAN (see TODO).
 



Analyzing ICEIn-memory Code Execution modules
An ICEIn-memory Code Execution DLLDynamic Link Library module analysis package is available (its also still in-work; so please report any bugs you find). It will take the "sample" and run it using RICE 1.0. Currently it only supports ICEIn-memory Code Execution Fire and Fire and Forget modules.
In order to submit a sample to cuckoo and have it run it as an ICEIn-memory Code Execution module, take the following steps:

Zip up the ICEIn-memory Code Execution DLLDynamic Link Library and META.xml into a zip file. For ease of submission, ensure the .META.xml file has the same name as the DLL. (i.e. ice.zip has 2 files: ice.dll and ice.dll.META.xml)
Open a browser to http://10.3.2.118:8080/submit/

Click Select and then select the zip file containing the ICEIn-memory Code Execution module and META.xml file.
Next click Advanced Options to expand the submit form
Select "ice_dll" as the Analysis Package.
In the Options field enter "file=[ICE DLLDynamic Link Library FILE],rice_arguments=[--Fire|–FireAndForget]
For Machine select cuckoo_win7 as the vm to run the sample in.
Finally click 'Analyze' to submit
Once submitted sucessfully, click Recent to see status.

 
Available Options for the ice_dll analysis package:

file: The name of the file in the zip to use as the ICEIn-memory Code Execution DLL.
metadata: The name of the file in zip to use as the ICEIn-memory Code Execution v3 metadata xml filedefaults to file.META.xml

arguments: arguments to be passed to the ICEIn-memory Code Execution DLLDynamic Link Library upon execution.
rice_arguments: arguments to be passed to rice (typically --Fire or --FireAndForget)





TODO


ID
Status
Task


1
incomplete
64-bit: Test out 64-bit support – no mention of limitation to 32-bit windows for cuckoo.



2
incomplete
DEVLAN Infrastructure:

ID
Status
Task


3
incomplete
physical home


4
incomplete
cuckoo.devlan.net 


5
incomplete
static IP


9
incomplete
Perhaps add resolvable network resources for testing implants (but the C&C lives outside the sandbox -- still in the same host-only network?)





6
incomplete
ICE analysis package: Add support for ICEIn-memory Code Execution FireAndCollect and FireAndInteract modules.


7
incomplete
Dirty word scanner


8
incomplete
Cross-correlation: Explore search and database features – can we have it generate reports with "similar" samples?





Comments:


2014-11-12 09:11 
[User #524297]: 

fantastic



Attachments:


cuckoo-current.tar.gz


image2014-11-10 14:8:56.png


image2014-11-10 14:8:28.png


cuckoo.png


cuckoo.pdf



Previous versions:
| 1 
| 2 
| 3 
| 4 
| 5 
| 6 
| 7 
|
                    