
                        Frog Prince
Introduction
Frog Prince is a FI implant system ...
Design
System
Components
C2
LP
Implant
Test
Unit testing
System Testing
Goal
System testing is directed at the Frog Prince system (i,e.  C2, LP, and implant).   The battery of tests concentrate on round trip functionality, i.e., demonstrating correct operations starting at the C2 and traversing through the LP, to the implant and back to the C2.  
Methodology
The testing uses DART as the primary test tool.   Additional tools, are comprised of  scripts,  user input files,  tailored utilities, and Linux utilities.    
Test cases,   test artifacts (logs, output files),  test documentation (description, goal),  test results, 
System testing comprises three levels,   A, B, and C,  with level A being the highest priority, broadest tests  and level C the lowest priority,  detailed or isolated tests.   Level A tests can only be done in the context of the system.   Level C tests only differ from unit tests in the sense that they are run within the system instead of within test wrappers.  
A - high level end-to-end tests

create a get command (via the UIUser Interface),  send to implant,  inspect returned queue state(s) and data
memory load a DLL,  execute it,  validate the results

B - high level one-way tests

implant a target, verify it installs and beacons
verify a new implant beacon creates a new queue
verify a file retrieved by get  - arrives at C2 compressed and encrypted

C - detailed specific tests
 
Test Configuration
The following  configurations are used for the DARTTest-Software (commercial) tests.   This essentially refers to the Virtual Machines configured for testing.
C2
This is a configured Linux (Ubuntu) system  with the xxx transport and Frog Prince code installed and configured.    A snapshot is available for reverting to the known state
LP
This is a configured Linux (Ubuntu) system  with the xxx transport and Frog Prince code installed and configured.    A snapshot is available for reverting to the known state.    The C2 and LPListening Post are, optionally, co-located on one VM.
The current FrogPrince LPListening Post is accessed via VMSphere.  It is located on Dart-vcenter.devlan.net   under Dart Datacenter/dart-esxi-b.devlan.net.   It will be migrated in the menu to be under  non-import-pool-linux
Target System
These are standard DARTTest-Software (commercial) provided Windows configurations.   Each test will  apply the Frog Prince implant as its first step.
Test cases
Frog Prince Install Test  
Frog Prince De-Install Tests  
Frog Prince Get Command Test  
Frog Prince Put Command Test  
Frog Prince Execute Command Test  
Frog Prince Memory Load Command  
Frog Prince Memory Unload Command  
Frog Prince Set Command  
 
 
 


Sub-Pages:


Frog Prince Set Command 


Frog Prince Memory Unload Command 


Frog Prince Memory Load Command 


Frog Prince Execute Command Test 


Frog Prince Put Command Test 


Frog Prince Get Command Test 


Frog Prince De-Install Tests 


Frog Prince Install Test 



Previous versions:
| 1 
| 2 
| 3 
| 4 
| 5 
| 6 
| 7 
| 8 
| 9 
| 10 
| 11 
|
                    