
                        Getting started

    
        
            
            1. Create a page
            
                Click "Create" and select "Blank Page" to create your first page.
                New pages are created as children of the page you are currently viewing.
            
            2. Add to your page
            
                Click "Edit" to enter the Confluence editor and use the page layouts feature to structure your content using sections and columns.
                Use headings to format your text and drag and drop images into your page to provide visual interest.
                Click "Insert" and select "Other Macros" to add macros for navigation, special formatting and other media.
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                        On this page:
                    
                    
                        
('toc' missing)
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
            3. Organise your pages
            Here are some tips for organising your content.
            
                
                    Change the page order
                
            
            The sidebar on the left displays your pages in a hierarchy. If you have Space Administrator permissions you can click "Space Tools" > "Reorder Pages" to move pages around.
            
                
                    Add labels
                
            
            Labels help keep pages organised and make it easier for you to find the information you need. Click "Labels" at the bottom of a page to add or edit. The "Related pages" section on this page uses labels too!
            
                
                    Make templates
                
            
            
                Standardise and speed up the page creation process with templates. You can create and format a template with page layouts, standard headings and instructional text for hints and guidelines. Check out our sample page on
                "Making a template  "
            
        
    
    
        
            
                Related pages
            
            
                
('contentbylabel' missing)
            
        
    


Sub-Pages:


Making a template 


                    